In this exercise, you're asked to instrument
a new referral feature for the food fast meal delivery service.
Question 1 asks which data you need to track
in order to know whether the new feature is successful.
By using pirate metrics,
we can identify the questions we will want to answer about the steps in the user journey.
When the feature launches,
if we're tracking the metrics that answer these questions,
we can quickly determine the relative success of
the feature and places we might want to improve.
First for acquisition, we'll want to see
how many in which users see the referral feature.
Tracking these metrics might tell us if
the referral feature is visible enough to current users.
Next, we should consider activation metrics,
such as how many and which users send
invites and how many and which users arrive via referral.
This will show us if the referral feature is appealing
enough to current users and the referred users.
After activation, we will want to consider retention.
How many users are sending multiple invites?
How many invites is an average user sending?
For the referred users,
how many are retained pass their first discounted delivery and become paying customers?
This will tell us the strength of the referral program and
its likelihood to result in continued referrals.
Finally, under revenue, we will want to know how many and which
invites ended up turning a referred user into a new customer.
Question 2, assess whether to recommend launching with
a single code or with codes unique to each user.
Even though it might be much simpler and take less development time to
launch a single code that could be used universally by all refers,
the service would lose a lot of valuable data following this route.
In discussing questions, we need to track metrics on to answer.
We've repeatedly noted the need to track which users take certain actions.
Such tracking can only be done with codes unique to each user.
It isn't enough to simply track the average user.
Later on, we will likely want to dig into the type of customers who refer and the type of
referred user that becomes a customer to see if
the feature can be better tailored for these high-impact cases.
We'll also likely want to follow up with users
and non-users of the referral feature to gather feedback.
When designing new features,
it is important to instrument with a near term evolution of the feature in mind.
If you know incentives might be offered to the refer in the future,
you probably should use unique codes right now.
Thus, launching with a single code should not be suggested when instrumenting features.
Knowing exactly who has done what is crucial to being able to measure success.